---
title: Vue I18n
description: Extension of Vue I18n
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Instance of [Composer (for Composition API)](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/api/composition.html#composer) or [VueI18n (for Legacy API)](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev/api/legacy.html#vuei18n) is exposed as `$i18n` on Vue instance.
::

## getLocaleCookie

Returns the locale stored from the stored locale cookie or nothing if unset.

### Signature
```ts
function getLocaleCookie(): string | undefined
```

## setLocaleCookie

Updates stored locale cookie with specified locale code. Consider using `setLocale` instead if you want to switch locale.

### Signature
```ts
function setLocaleCookie(locale: string): void
```


## setLocale

Switches locale of the app to the specified locale code. 

- If `useCookie` option is enabled, the locale cookie will be updated with the new value. 
- If prefixes are enabled (`strategy` other than `no_prefix`), will navigate to new locale's route.

### Signature
```ts
function setLocale(locale: string): Promise<void>
```


## loadLocaleMessages

Loads the translation messages of the specified locale code. This is only relevant for projects using lazy-loaded translations when using translations from a non-loaded locale.

### Signature

```ts
function loadLocaleMessages(locale: string): Promise<void>
```

## getBrowserLocale

Returns browser locale code filtered against the ones defined in options.

### Signature
```ts
function getBrowserLocale(): string | undefined
```

## finalizePendingLocaleChange

Switches to the pending locale that would have been set on navigate, but was prevented by the option [`skipSettingLocaleOnNavigate`](/docs/options/routing#skipsettinglocaleonnavigate). See more information in [Wait for page transition](/docs/guide/lang-switcher#wait-for-page-transition).

### Signature
```ts
function finalizePendingLocaleChange(): Promise<void>
```

## waitForPendingLocaleChange

Returns a promise that will be resolved once the pending locale is set.

### Signature
```ts
function waitForPendingLocaleChange(): Promise<void>
```

## strategy

- type: `Strategies`{lang="ts-type"}

Routing strategy as specified in options.

## defaultDirection

- type: `Directions`{lang="ts-type"}

Default direction as specified in options.

## defaultLocale

- type: `string`{lang="ts-type"}

Default locale as specified in options.

## localeCodes

- type: `Array<string>`{lang="ts-type"}

List of locale codes of registered locales.

## locales

- type: `Array<string | LocaleObject>`{lang="ts-type"}

List of locales as defined in options.

## localeProperties

- type: `LocaleObject`{lang="ts-type"}

Object of the current locale properties.

## differentDomains

- type: `boolean`{lang="ts-type"}

Whether `differentDomains` option is enabled.
